doc/source/MANUAL.rst, before:

.. _manual:

stestr user manual
==================

Overview
--------

stestr is an application for running and tracking test results. Any test run
that can be represented as a subunit stream can be inserted into a repository.
However, the test running mechanism assumes python is being used. It is
originally forked from the testrepository project so the usage is similar.

A typical basic example workflow is::

  # Create a store to manage test results in.
  $ stestr init
  # Do a test run
  $ stestr run

Most commands in testr have comprehensive online help, and the commands::

  $ stestr --help
  $ stestr [command] --help

Will be useful to explore the system.

Configuration
-------------

stestr is configured with a config file that tells stestr some basic information
about how to run tests. By default the config file needs to be ``.stestr.conf``
in the same directory that stestr is run from. However, the ``--config``/``-c``
CLI argument can specify an alternate path for it. stestr also includes an
online help for all the options that can be set in the config file. It is in the
top of the output of::

  $ stestr run --help

However, the 2 most important options in the stestr config file are
``test_path`` and ``top_dir``. These 2 options are used to set the `unittest
discovery`_ options for stestr. (test_path is the same as --start-directory and
top_dir is the same as --top-level-directory in the doc) Only test_path is a
required field in the config file, if top_dir is not specified it defaults to
'./'. It's also worth noting that shell variables for these 2 config options
(and only these 2 options) are expanded on platforms that have a shell. This
enables you to have conditional discovery paths based on your environment.

.. _unittest discovery: https://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html#test-discovery

For example, having a config file like::

    [DEFAULT]
    test_path=${TEST_PATH:-./foo/tests}

will let you override the discovery start path using the TEST_PATH environment
variable.

There is also an option to specify all the options in the config file via the
CLI. This way you can run stestr directly without having to write a config file
and manually specify the test_path like above with the ``--test-path``/``-t``
CLI argument.

Running tests
-------------

To run tests the ``stestr run`` command is used. By default this will run all
tests discovered using the discovery parameters in the stestr config file.

Test Selection
--------------

Arguments passed to ``stestr run`` are used to filter test ids that will be run.
stestr will perform unittest discovery to get a list of all test ids and then
apply each argument as a regex filter. Tests that match any of the given filters
will be run. For example, if you called ``stestr run foo bar`` this will only
run the tests that have a regex match with foo **or** a regex match with bar.

stestr allows you do to do simple test exclusion via passing a rejection/black
regexp::

    $ stestr --back-regex 'slow_tests|bad_tests'

stestr also allow you to combine these arguments::

    $ stestr --back-regexp 'slow_tests|bad_tests' ui\.interface

Here first we selected all tests which matches to ``ui\.interface``, then we are
dropping all test which matches ``slow_tests|bad_tests`` from the final list.

stestr also allows you to specify a blacklist file to define a set of regexes
to exclude. You can specify a blacklist file with the
``--blacklist-file``/``-b`` option, for example::

    $ stestr --blacklist_file $path_to_file

The format for the file is line separated regex, with '#' used to signify the
start of a comment on a line. For example::

    # Blacklist File
    ^regex1 # Excludes these tests
    .*regex2 # exclude those tests

The regexp used in the blacklist file or passed as argument, will be used to
drop tests from the initial selection list. It will generate a list which will
exclude any tests matching '^regex1' or '.*regex2'. If a blacklist file is used
in conjunction with the normal filters then the regex filters passed in as an
argument regex will be used for the initial test selection, and the exclusion
regexes from the blacklist file on top of that.

The dual of the blacklist file is the whitelist file which will include any
tests matching the regexes in the file. You can specify the path to the file
with ``--whitelist_file``/``-w``, for example::

    $ stestr --whitelist_file $path_to_file

The format for the file is more or less identical to the blacklist file::

    # Whitelist File
    ^regex1 # Include these tests
    .*regex2 # include those tests

However, instead of excluding the matches it will include them.

It's also worth noting that you can use the test list option to dry run any
selection arguments you are using. You just need to use --list/-l with your
selection options to do this, for example::

    $ stestr list 'regex3.*' --blacklist_file blacklist.txt

This will list all the tests which will be run by stestr using that combination
of arguments.


Running previously failed tests
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

``stestr run`` also enables you to run just the tests that failed in the
previous run. To do this you can use the ``---failing`` argument.

A common workflow using this is::

  # Run tests (and some fail)
  $ stestr run
  # Fix currently broken tests - repeat until there are no failures.
  $ stestr run --failing
  # Do a full run to find anything that regressed during the reduction process.
  $ stestr run

The ``--failing`` option turns on ``--partial`` automatically (so that if the
partial test run were to be interrupted, the failing tests that aren't run are
not lost).

Another common use case is repeating a failure that occurred on a remote
machine (e.g. during a jenkins test run). There are a few common ways to do
approach this.

Firstly, if you have a subunit stream from the run you can just load it::

  $ stestr load < failing-stream
  # Run the failed tests
  $ stestr run --failing

The streams generated by test runs are in .stestr/ named for their test
id - e.g. .stestr/0 is the first stream. Note for right now these files are
stored in subunit v1, but all of stestr commands (including load) expect a
subunit v2 stream.

If you have access to the remote machine you can also get the subunit stream
by running::

  $ stestr last --subunit > failing-stream

This is often a bit easier than trying to manually pull the stream file out
of the .stestr directory. (also it will be in subunit v2)

If you do not have a stream or access to the machine you may be able to use a
list file. If you can get a file that contains one test id per line, you can
run the named tests like this::

  $ stestr run --load-list FILENAME

This can also be useful when dealing with sporadically failing tests, or tests
that only fail in combination with some other test - you can bisect the tests
that were run to get smaller and smaller (or larger and larger) test subsets
until the error is pinpointed.

``stestr run --until-failure`` will run your test suite again and again and
again stopping only when interrupted or a failure occurs. This is useful
for repeating timing-related test failures.

Listing tests
-------------

To see a list of tests found by stestr you can use the ``stestr list`` command.
This will list all tests found by discovery.

You can also use this to see what tests will be run by a given stestr run
command. For instance, the tests that ``stestr run myfilter`` will run are shown
by ``stestr list myfilter``. As with the run command, arguments to list are used
to regex filter the tests.

Parallel testing
----------------

stestr lets you run tests in parallel by default. So, it actually does this by
def::

  $ stestr run

This will first list the tests, partition the tests into one partition per CPU
on the machine, and then invoke multiple test runners at the same time, with
each test runner getting one partition. Currently the partitioning algorithm
is simple round-robin for tests that stestr has not seen run before, and
equal-time buckets for tests that stestr has seen run.

To determine how many CPUs are present in the machine, stestr will
use the multiprocessing Python module On operating systems where this is not
implemented, or if you need to control the number of workers that are used,
the --concurrency option will let you do so::

  $ stestr run --concurrency=2

When running tests in parallel, stestr adds a tag for each test to the subunit
stream to show which worker executed that test. The tags are of the form
``worker-%d`` and are usually used to reproduce test isolation failures, where
knowing exactly what test ran on a given worker is important. The %d that is
substituted in is the partition number of tests from the test run - all tests
in a single run with the same worker-N ran in the same test runner instance.

To find out which slave a failing test ran on just look at the 'tags' line in
its test error::

  ======================================================================
  label: testrepository.tests.ui.TestDemo.test_methodname
  tags: foo worker-0
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  error text

And then find tests with that tag::

  $ stestr last --subunit | subunit-filter -s --xfail --with-tag=worker-3 | subunit-ls > slave-3.list

Grouping Tests
--------------

In certain scenarios you may want to group tests of a certain type together
so that they will be run by the same worker process. The group_regex option in
the stestr config file permits this. When set, tests are grouped by the group(0)
of any regex match. Tests with no match are not grouped.

For example, setting the following option in the stestr config file will group
tests in the same class together (the last . splits the class and test method)::

    group_regex=([^\.]+\.)+

Test Scheduling
---------------
By default stestr schedules the tests by first checking if there is any
historical timing data on any tests. It then sorts the tests by that timing
data loops over the tests in order and adds one to each worker that it will
launch. For tests without timing data, the same is done, except the tests are
in alphabetical order instead of based on timing data. If a group regex is used
the same algorithm is used with groups instead of individual tests.

However there are options to adjust how stestr will schedule tests. The primary
option to do this is to manually schedule all the tests run. To do this use the
``--worker-file`` option for stestr run. This takes a path to a yaml file that
instructs stestr how to run tests. It is formatted as a list of dicts with a
single element each with a list describing the tests to run on each worker. For
example::

    - worker:
      - regex 1

    - worker:
      - regex 2
      - regex 3

would create 2 workers. The first would run all tests that match regex 1, and
the second would run all tests that match regex 2 or regex 3.

Automated test isolation bisection
----------------------------------

As mentioned above, its possible to manually analyze test isolation issues by
interrogating the repository for which tests ran on which worker, and then
creating a list file with those tests, re-running only half of them, checking
the error still happens, rinse and repeat.

However that is tedious. stestr can perform this analysis for you::

  $ stestr run --analyze-isolation

will perform that analysis for you. The process is:

1. The last run in the repository is used as a basis for analysing against -
   tests are only cross checked against tests run in the same worker in that
   run. This means that failures accrued from several different runs would not
   be processed with the right basis tests - you should do a full test run to
   seed your repository. This can be local, or just stestr load a full run from
   your Jenkins or other remote run environment.

2. Each test that is currently listed as a failure is run in a test process
   given just that id to run.

3. Tests that fail are excluded from analysis - they are broken on their own.

4. The remaining failures are then individually analysed one by one.

5. For each failing, it gets run in one work along with the first 1/2 of the
   tests that were previously run prior to it.

6. If the test now passes, that set of prior tests are discarded, and the
   other half of the tests is promoted to be the full list. If the test fails
   then other other half of the tests are discarded and the current set
   promoted.

7. Go back to running the failing test along with 1/2 of the current list of
   priors unless the list only has 1 test in it. If the failing test still
   failed with that test, we have found the isolation issue. If it did not
   then either the isolation issue is racy, or it is a 3-or-more test
   isolation issue. Neither of those cases are automated today.

Forcing isolation
-----------------

Sometimes it is useful to force a separate test runner instance for each test
executed. The ``--isolated`` flag will cause stestr to execute a separate runner
per test::

  $ stestr run --isolated

In this mode stestr first determines tests to run (either automatically listed,
using the failing set, or a user supplied load-list), and then spawns one test
runner per test it runs. To avoid cross-test-runner interactions concurrency
is disabled in this mode. ``--analyze-isolation`` supersedes ``--isolated`` if
they are both supplied.

Repositories
------------

stestr uses a data repository to keep track of test previous test runs. There
are different backend types that each offer different advantages. There are
currently 2 repository types to choose from, **file** and **sql**.

You can choose which repository type you want with the ``--repo-type``/``-r``
cli flag. **file** is the current default.

You can also specify an alternative repository with the ``--repo-url``/``-u``
cli flags. The default value for a **file** repository type is to use the
directory: ``$CWD/.stestr``. For a **sql** repository type is to use a sqlite
database located at: ``$CWD/.stestr.sqlite``.

.. note:: Make sure you put these flags before the cli subcommand

.. note:: Different repository types that use local storage will conflict with
    each other in the same directory. If you initialize one repository type
    and then try to use another in the same directory, it will not
    work.

File
''''
The default stestr repository type has a very simple disk structure. It
contains the following files:

* format: This file identifies the precise layout of the repository, in case
  future changes are needed.

* next-stream: This file contains the serial number to be used when adding another
  stream to the repository.

* failing: This file is a stream containing just the known failing tests. It
  is updated whenever a new stream is added to the repository, so that it only
  references known failing tests.

* #N - all the streams inserted in the repository are given a serial number.

SQL
'''
This is an experimental repository backend, that is based on the `subunit2sql`_
library. It's currently still under development and should be considered
experimental for the time being. Eventually it'll replace the File repository
type

.. _subunit2sql:

Commit message:

Add --no-discover option to stestr run
This commit adds an option to stestr run, --no-discover/-n, to bypass
test discovery and just directly run a single python callable. This
will make it easier (and much faster) for people iterating on a single
test to just run it directly.

An implementation note here is that subunit.run is called with
subprocess instead of manually calling the subunit.run module. This is
for 2 reasons (which are related) first is that all the glue code in
stestr itself (mostly in stestr.commands.load) is expecting this, since
it is how we execute subunit.run in the case with discovery. Changing
this assumption would mean having to add an additional code path to
stestr load for an internal stream but not from a subprocess.

The second is that the subunit.run api makes it difficult to handle the
streams in a serialized manner. The subunit.run module is basically just
a wrapper for testtools.run which is itself just a wrapper for
unittest.main. In that call path there are a lot of assumptions made
about the input and output types and the control available on those
objects. (for example an io.BytesIO for the output stream does not work,
but real files do) It makes it difficult to have tests run directly in
python. The closest I got to making this work inside a single python
interpreter was to use os.pipe() for the stream and launch a
threading.Thread() to call subunit.run and write the output into
the pipe and then pass the reader side of the pipe to
stestr.commands.load. However even doing this caused an IOError on exit
because something in the subunit.run call path was deleting the file it
was passed.

doc/source/MANUAL.rst, after:

.. _manual:

stestr user manual
==================

Overview
--------

stestr is an application for running and tracking test results. Any test run
that can be represented as a subunit stream can be inserted into a repository.
However, the test running mechanism assumes python is being used. It is
originally forked from the testrepository project so the usage is similar.

A typical basic example workflow is::

  # Create a store to manage test results in.
  $ stestr init
  # Do a test run
  $ stestr run

Most commands in testr have comprehensive online help, and the commands::

  $ stestr --help
  $ stestr [command] --help

Will be useful to explore the system.

Configuration
-------------

stestr is configured with a config file that tells stestr some basic information
about how to run tests. By default the config file needs to be ``.stestr.conf``
in the same directory that stestr is run from. However, the ``--config``/``-c``
CLI argument can specify an alternate path for it. stestr also includes an
online help for all the options that can be set in the config file. It is in the
top of the output of::

  $ stestr run --help

However, the 2 most important options in the stestr config file are
``test_path`` and ``top_dir``. These 2 options are used to set the `unittest
discovery`_ options for stestr. (test_path is the same as --start-directory and
top_dir is the same as --top-level-directory in the doc) Only test_path is a
required field in the config file, if top_dir is not specified it defaults to
'./'. It's also worth noting that shell variables for these 2 config options
(and only these 2 options) are expanded on platforms that have a shell. This
enables you to have conditional discovery paths based on your environment.

.. _unittest discovery: https://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html#test-discovery

For example, having a config file like::

    [DEFAULT]
    test_path=${TEST_PATH:-./foo/tests}

will let you override the discovery start path using the TEST_PATH environment
variable.

There is also an option to specify all the options in the config file via the
CLI. This way you can run stestr directly without having to write a config file
and manually specify the test_path like above with the ``--test-path``/``-t``
CLI argument.

Running tests
-------------

To run tests the ``stestr run`` command is used. By default this will run all
tests discovered using the discovery parameters in the stestr config file.

If you'd like to avoid the overhead of test discovery and just manually execute
a single test (test class, or module) you can do this using the
``--no-discover``/``-n`` option. For example::

    stestr run --no-discover project.tests.test_foo.TestFoo

you can also give it a file path and stestr will convert that to the proper
python path under the covers. (assuming your project don't manually mess with
import paths) For example::

    stestr run --no-discover project/tests/test_foo.py

will also bypass discovery and directly call subunit.run on the module
specified.

Test Selection
--------------

Arguments passed to ``stestr run`` are used to filter test ids that will be run.
stestr will perform unittest discovery to get a list of all test ids and then
apply each argument as a regex filter. Tests that match any of the given filters
will be run. For example, if you called ``stestr run foo bar`` this will only
run the tests that have a regex match with foo **or** a regex match with bar.

stestr allows you do to do simple test exclusion via passing a rejection/black
regexp::

    $ stestr --back-regex 'slow_tests|bad_tests'

stestr also allow you to combine these arguments::

    $ stestr --back-regexp 'slow_tests|bad_tests' ui\.interface

Here first we selected all tests which matches to ``ui\.interface``, then we are
dropping all test which matches ``slow_tests|bad_tests`` from the final list.

stestr also allows you to specify a blacklist file to define a set of regexes
to exclude. You can specify a blacklist file with the
``--blacklist-file``/``-b`` option, for example::

    $ stestr --blacklist_file $path_to_file

The format for the file is line separated regex, with '#' used to signify the
start of a comment on a line. For example::

    # Blacklist File
    ^regex1 # Excludes these tests
    .*regex2 # exclude those tests

The regexp used in the blacklist file or passed as argument, will be used to
drop tests from the initial selection list. It will generate a list which will
exclude any tests matching '^regex1' or '.*regex2'. If a blacklist file is used
in conjunction with the normal filters then the regex filters passed in as an
argument regex will be used for the initial test selection, and the exclusion
regexes from the blacklist file on top of that.

The dual of the blacklist file is the whitelist file which will include any
tests matching the regexes in the file. You can specify the path to the file
with ``--whitelist_file``/``-w``, for example::

    $ stestr --whitelist_file $path_to_file

The format for the file is more or less identical to the blacklist file::

    # Whitelist File
    ^regex1 # Include these tests
    .*regex2 # include those tests

However, instead of excluding the matches it will include them.

It's also worth noting that you can use the test list option to dry run any
selection arguments you are using. You just need to use --list/-l with your
selection options to do this, for example::

    $ stestr list 'regex3.*' --blacklist_file blacklist.txt

This will list all the tests which will be run by stestr using that combination
of arguments.


Running previously failed tests
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

``stestr run`` also enables you to run just the tests that failed in the
previous run. To do this you can use the ``---failing`` argument.

A common workflow using this is::

  # Run tests (and some fail)
  $ stestr run
  # Fix currently broken tests - repeat until there are no failures.
  $ stestr run --failing
  # Do a full run to find anything that regressed during the reduction process.
  $ stestr run

The ``--failing`` option turns on ``--partial`` automatically (so that if the
partial test run were to be interrupted, the failing tests that aren't run are
not lost).

Another common use case is repeating a failure that occurred on a remote
machine (e.g. during a jenkins test run). There are a few common ways to do
approach this.

Firstly, if you have a subunit stream from the run you can just load it::

  $ stestr load < failing-stream
  # Run the failed tests
  $ stestr run --failing

The streams generated by test runs are in .stestr/ named for their test
id - e.g. .stestr/0 is the first stream. Note for right now these files are
stored in subunit v1, but all of stestr commands (including load) expect a
subunit v2 stream.

If you have access to the remote machine you can also get the subunit stream
by running::

  $ stestr last --subunit > failing-stream

This is often a bit easier than trying to manually pull the stream file out
of the .stestr directory. (also it will be in subunit v2)

If you do not have a stream or access to the machine you may be able to use a
list file. If you can get a file that contains one test id per line, you can
run the named tests like this::

  $ stestr run --load-list FILENAME

This can also be useful when dealing with sporadically failing tests, or tests
that only fail in combination with some other test - you can bisect the tests
that were run to get smaller and smaller (or larger and larger) test subsets
until the error is pinpointed.

``stestr run --until-failure`` will run your test suite again and again and
again stopping only when interrupted or a failure occurs. This is useful
for repeating timing-related test failures.

Listing tests
-------------

To see a list of tests found by stestr you can use the ``stestr list`` command.
This will list all tests found by discovery.

You can also use this to see what tests will be run by a given stestr run
command. For instance, the tests that ``stestr run myfilter`` will run are shown
by ``stestr list myfilter``. As with the run command, arguments to list are used
to regex filter the tests.

Parallel testing
----------------

stestr lets you run tests in parallel by default. So, it actually does this by
def::

  $ stestr run

This will first list the tests, partition the tests into one partition per CPU
on the machine, and then invoke multiple test runners at the same time, with
each test runner getting one partition. Currently the partitioning algorithm
is simple round-robin for tests that stestr has not seen run before, and
equal-time buckets for tests that stestr has seen run.

To determine how many CPUs are present in the machine, stestr will
use the multiprocessing Python module On operating systems where this is not
implemented, or if you need to control the number of workers that are used,
the --concurrency option will let you do so::

  $ stestr run --concurrency=2

When running tests in parallel, stestr adds a tag for each test to the subunit
stream to show which worker executed that test. The tags are of the form
``worker-%d`` and are usually used to reproduce test isolation failures, where
knowing exactly what test ran on a given worker is important. The %d that is
substituted in is the partition number of tests from the test run - all tests
in a single run with the same worker-N ran in the same test runner instance.

To find out which slave a failing test ran on just look at the 'tags' line in
its test error::

  ======================================================================
  label: testrepository.tests.ui.TestDemo.test_methodname
  tags: foo worker-0
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
  error text

And then find tests with that tag::

  $ stestr last --subunit | subunit-filter -s --xfail --with-tag=worker-3 | subunit-ls > slave-3.list

Grouping Tests
--------------

In certain scenarios you may want to group tests of a certain type together
so that they will be run by the same worker process. The group_regex option in
the stestr config file permits this. When set, tests are grouped by the group(0)
of any regex match. Tests with no match are not grouped.

For example, setting the following option in the stestr config file will group
tests in the same class together (the last . splits the class and test method)::

    group_regex=([^\.]+\.)+

Test Scheduling
---------------
By default stestr schedules the tests by first checking if there is any
historical timing data on any tests. It then sorts the tests by that timing
data loops over the tests in order and adds one to each worker that it will
launch. For tests without timing data, the same is done, except the tests are
in alphabetical order instead of based on timing data. If a group regex is used
the same algorithm is used with groups instead of individual tests.

However there are options to adjust how stestr will schedule tests. The primary
option to do this is to manually schedule all the tests run. To do this use the
``--worker-file`` option for stestr run. This takes a path to a yaml file that
instructs stestr how to run tests. It is formatted as a list of dicts with a
single element each with a list describing the tests to run on each worker. For
example::

    - worker:
      - regex 1

    - worker:
      - regex 2
      - regex 3

would create 2 workers. The first would run all tests that match regex 1, and
the second would run all tests that match regex 2 or regex 3.

Automated test isolation bisection
----------------------------------

As mentioned above, its possible to manually analyze test isolation issues by
interrogating the repository for which tests ran on which worker, and then
creating a list file with those tests, re-running only half of them, checking
the error still happens, rinse and repeat.

However that is tedious. stestr can perform this analysis for you::

  $ stestr run --analyze-isolation

will perform that analysis for you. The process is:

1. The last run in the repository is used as a basis for analysing against -
   tests are only cross checked against tests run in the same worker in that
   run. This means that failures accrued from several different runs would not
   be processed with the right basis tests - you should do a full test run to
   seed your repository. This can be local, or just stestr load a full run from
   your Jenkins or other remote run environment.

2. Each test that is currently listed as a failure is run in a test process
   given just that id to run.

3. Tests that fail are excluded from analysis - they are broken on their own.

4. The remaining failures are then individually analysed one by one.

5. For each failing, it gets run in one work along with the first 1/2 of the
   tests that were previously run prior to it.

6. If the test now passes, that set of prior tests are discarded, and the
   other half of the tests is promoted to be the full list. If the test fails
   then other other half of the tests are discarded and the current set
   promoted.

7. Go back to running the failing test along with 1/2 of the current list of
   priors unless the list only has 1 test in it. If the failing test still
   failed with that test, we have found the isolation issue. If it did not
   then either the isolation issue is racy, or it is a 3-or-more test
   isolation issue. Neither of those cases are automated today.

Forcing isolation
-----------------

Sometimes it is useful to force a separate test runner instance for each test
executed. The ``--isolated`` flag will cause stestr to execute a separate runner
per test::

  $ stestr run --isolated

In this mode stestr first determines tests to run (either automatically listed,
using the failing set, or a user supplied load-list), and then spawns one test
runner per test it runs. To avoid cross-test-runner interactions concurrency
is disabled in this mode. ``--analyze-isolation`` supersedes ``--isolated`` if
they are both supplied.

Repositories
------------

stestr uses a data repository to keep track of test previous test runs. There
are different backend types that each offer different advantages. There are
currently 2 repository types to choose from, **file** and **sql**.

You can choose which repository type you want with the ``--repo-type``/``-r``
cli flag. **file** is the current default.

You can also specify an alternative repository with the ``--repo-url``/``-u``
cli flags. The default value for a **file** repository type is to use the
directory: ``$CWD/.stestr``. For a **sql** repository type is to use a sqlite
database located at: ``$CWD/.stestr.sqlite``.

.. note:: Make sure you put these flags before the cli subcommand

.. note:: Different repository types that use local storage will conflict with
    each other in the same directory. If you initialize one repository type
    and then try to use another in the same directory, it will not
    work.

File
''''
The default stestr repository type has a very simple disk structure. It
contains the following files:

* format: This file identifies the precise layout of the repository, in case
  future changes are needed.

* next-stream: This file contains the serial number to be used when adding another
  stream to the repository.

* failing: This file is a stream containing just the known failing tests. It
  is updated whenever a new stream is added to the repository, so that it only
  references known failing tests.

* #N - all the streams inserted in the repository are given a serial number.

SQL
'''
This is an experimental repository backend, that is based on the `subunit2sql`_
library. It's currently still under development and should be considered
experimental for the time being. Eventually it'll replace the File repository
type

.. _subunit2sql:
